# PhD-Thesis
## Scritps
### RD_indiv_file.R
An R script that reads a coverage table generated by the depth function of SAMTOOLS (version 1.6; Li et al 2009), calculates the mean read depth of 5kb non-overlapping windows in a S. cerevisiae genome, and plot them separated by chromosomes.

### nquireplot.R
An R script that reads nQuire output files to plot changes in logLikelihood values per ploidy state by chromosome. 


## Chapter 2: Detection of aneuploidy using high-throughput genome sequence data
### Supplementary table 1 (C2ST1.txt)
A table with all sequences used in Chapter 2, with ploidy and aneuploidy calls from flow cytometry in Peter et al., 2018 and Ropars et al., 2018, heterozygosity estimated with vcf2allelePlot.pl (see methods), their zygosity (see methods) and study that first sequenced them. Columns shows each strain's ID (1), species (2), ploidy (3,  from flow cytometry in Peter et al., 2018 and Ropars et al., 2018), aneuploidies (4, from Peter et al., 2018 and Ropars et al., 2018), zygosity (5), heterozygosity (6, number of high-quality heterozygous SNPs divided by number of high-quality base calls), (7) original study.  The aneuploidy column shows number of chromosomes gained/lost (+/-) at (@) specific chromosomes. For example, strain CBS1175 gained 1 copy of chromosomes 9 and 14 (+1@9,14). 

### Supplementary table 2 (C2ST2.txt)
A table with aneuploidy calls for all sequences divided by tool. Columns shows each strain's ID (1), species (2), zygosity (3), heterozygosity  (4, number of high-quality heterozygous SNPs divided by number of high-quality base calls), aneuploidies (5, from Peter et al., 2018 and Ropars et al., 2018), (6) number of true aneuploidy calls. The aneuploidy column shows number of chromosomes gained/lost (+/-) at (@) specific chromosomes. For example, strain CBS1175 gained 1 copy of chromosomes 9 and 14 (+1@9,14). Columns 7-10 show VarScan true positive (TP), true negative (TN), false positive (FP), and false negative (FN) results, respectively. Columns 11-14 show Control-FREEC (CF) true positive (TP), true negative (TN), false positive (FP), and false negative (FN) results, respectively. Columns 15-18 show nQuire true positive (TP), true negative (TN), false positive (FP), and false negative (FN) results, respectively. Columns 19-22 show ploidyNGS true positive (TP), true negative (TN), false positive (FP), and false negative (FN) results, respectively. Columns 23-26 show vcf2allelePlot.pl true positive (TP), true negative (TN), false positive (FP), and false negative (FN) results, respectively. Columns 27-30 show YMAP true positive (TP), true negative (TN), false positive (FP), and false negative (FN) results, respectively. 

### Supplementary table 3 (C2ST3.txt)
A table with ploidy calls for all sequences divided by tool. Columns shows each strain's ID (1), species (2), zygosity (3), ploidy (4, from flow cytometry in Peter et al., 2018 and Ropars et al., 2018). Columns 5-8 show ploidy estimates for Control-FREEC (5), nQuire (6), ploidyNGS (7), and vcf2allelePlot.pl (8). 

## Chapter 3: Genetic variation in aneuploidy prevalence and tolerance across _Saccharomyces cerevisiae_ lineages
### Supplementary table 4 (C3ST1.txt)
Tab delimited text file with information on 1011 strains derived from Peter et al 2018 Table S1, estimated levels of heterozygosity, and allele calls at the SSD1 locus (see Methods). Available at \url{https://github.com/bensassonlab/data/tree/master/scopel_etal20/}. 

## Chapter 4: A Genome-Wide Association study of chromosome gain in _Saccharomyces cerevisiae_
### Supplementary table 5 (C4ST1.txt)
Tab delimited text file with information on 2,453 strains derived from several studies. Columns show each strain's ID (1), alternative ID (2), ENA genome project number (3), geographical origin (4), ecological origin as originally published (5), substrate of isolation (6), ecological category (7, see chapter 3), monosporic derivative information (8), ploidy (9, from flow cytometry, if available), ploidy (10, from B-allele frequency method), aneuploidy call from BAF (11, specific karyotype from B-allele frequency methods), aneuploidy call from RD (12, specific karyotype from read depth methods), aneuploidy binary (12, yes or no based on RD), aneuploidy type (13, gain, loss or both), aneuploidy binary from RD (14, yes or no), contamination status (15), basename (16, ID in files), average whole-genome coverage (17), lineage assignment by previous studies (18, if available), heterozygosity (19), original study (20). 
    
### Supplementary table 6 (C4ST2.txt)
A subset of supplementary table 5 with 902 diploids. Extra columns 21-37 show gain of chromosomes 1-16. Column 38 shows the consensus ploidy calls between flow cytometry and B-allele frequency calls. Column 39 shows a binary numeric conversion of aneuploidy calls for the GWA analysis. Column 40 shows new lineage assignment based on the neighbor-joining tree. 

### Supplementary table 7 (C4ST3.txt)
C4ST3.txt: A subset of ST6 with 293 admixed diploid strains.
